1. Imagine a publishing company that markets both book and audio cassette versions of its work. Create a class publication that stores the title and price of a publication and member functions getdata() and displaydata(). From this class derive two classes: book which adds a page count and tape which adds a plain time in minutes. Write a main program to test the book and tape classes by creating instances of them

2. Create a base class called SHAPE. Use this class to store two double type values that could be used to compute the area of figures. Derive two specific classes called Triangle and Rectangle from the class SHAPE. Add to the base class, a member function get_data() to initialize base class data member and other member function display_area() to compute and display the area of figure. Make display_area() as a virtual function and redefine this function in the derived classes to suit their requirements.

3. Design a Ship class with member variables name and year with constructors and appropriate accessors and mutators.  
Virtual print function that displays the ship’s name and the year it was built. 
Design a CruiseShip class that is derived from the Ship class. The CruiseShip class should have the following members a variable for the maximum number of passengers and appropriate accessors, mutators and constructor. A print function that overrides the print function in the base class. The CruiseShip class’s print function should display only the ship’s name and the maximum number of passengers. 
Design a CargoShip class that is derived from the Ship class. The CargoShip class should have the following members a member variable for the cargo capacity, constructor, accessors and mutators. A print function that overrides the print function in the base class. The CargoShip class’s print function should display only the ship’s name and the ship’s cargo capacity. Demonstrate the classes in a program that has an array of Ship pointers. The array elements should be initialized with the addresses of dynamically allocated Ship. The program should then step through the array, calling each object’s print function.